I want my Huang... I won't let it go.
I want my Huang...
Gui...
Gui. you are too young to understand.
Huang leaves this world in peace.
since he had done what he needed to do.
Everyone dies.
So does Huang.
but one only leaves in peace
when there is no regret in one's life.
Don't cry. my boy.
Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today
Gui has a problem!
What happened to him?
He missed his bull so much
that he stole one from the Siam clan.
He got caught over there
and they are about to punish him
according to their law.
Let's go to save Gui!
Help me...
Beat him.
help me...
Help me...
Are you coming for a fight?
Gui made a mistake and should be punished.
You have already punished him enough.
I'm here to make a formal apology.
The boy doesn't know any better.
Let us take him back.
Indeed he is a child.
But even for children in our village.
we beat them for the burning time
of an incense
so they will remember the lesson.
Go on. Beat him.
Help me!
The child can't take it.
Let me take the beating for him!
Stop!
Let me take the beatings for Gui.
Well. this punishment is for children.
Adults should be punished in another way.
How?
Take on my iron fist.
If I am still standing
when this incense burns out.
you will have to release the child.
Sure! No argument about life and death?
No argument!
It's settled then?
Yes.
Grandma. what's wrong with him?
Ox. Ox!
You don't want to hurt others.
but you should let others hurt you.
son!
How can we stand this! Let's help him.
Stop!
The incense is still burning.
Stand up. stand up...
Keep beating... beat him.
The incense has burnt out.
You lose. you lose...
Let him go!
Let's go home. Gui. Go.
Time to go home.
I want to stay a little longer with Ox.
I don't go home.
Gui. aren't you hungry?
Are you not hungry? Ox might be hungry.
No. I am not hungry.
I can stay here a little longer with Gui.
Ox. you are the best.
So what does that make me?
Aunt Moon.
can you ask Ox a favor for me?
You and Ox are so close.
why do you need my help?
Because. you are the dearest to Ox.
Gui. Don't talk nonsense.
Gui. you can ask me yourself.
You keep refusing to teach me martial arts.
but I really want to learn.
I also want to learn!
Gui. why do you want
to learn martial arts?
So the others won't bully me.
What about you?
I want everyone to be afraid of me.
What if Ning bullies you. what will you do?
I will hit him back
What about you. will you fight Gui back?
For sure.
I will fight Gui until he's scared of me.
What if you can't beat him?
Then. I will learn from a master
Then what will you do?
I will learn from a master
and then fight him again.
You beat him up. and he beats you up.
When will this end?
It's not that I don't want to teach you.
I also need to think about
why we learn martial arts.
Let's go and catch the dragonflies!
Grandma. let's eat.
Ok.
Grandma
- Moon...
- Yes. Grandma.
In a few days.
we should visit your parents' graves.
Ok.
I am going to...
visit my parents' graves.
Hey. Ox.
Have a drink of water.
Can we talk?
You are leaving...
I was thinking...
maybe I should visit my parents' graves.
You should go. Family is important.
I'll come back soon.
You've been here for many years.
Yet I've always known
one day you will leave.
The truth is. I...
Take these clean clothes for your trip.
You don't even know my real name.
You don't have to tell me.
I don't need to know where you're from...
or where you're going.
You will always be "Ox" to me.
My name is Huo Yuanjia.
I'll always remember.
Late Qing Dynasty
Various strong countries invaded China
Tianjin became partly colonized
Believe in God.
and you'll have everlasting life.
...his words are written here.
God's words...
Huo Yuanjia!
Champion of Tianjin!
Champion of Tianjin! Huo Yuanjia!
Huo Yuanjia has returned to the ring.
- Young master!
- Lai!
You've finally returned!
Good. good...
Let me take your bag.
Please forgive me...
it was not easy maintaining this house.
I did my best...
trying to keep everything...
the way it was.
It must have been very hard for you.
I'm sorry for not doing better.
Young Master.
After you left...
the creditors came... to collect money.
tearing this place...
apart.
The house was almost foreclosed.
We would have lost...
everything...
but someone sent money.
I later figured...
it was your good friend Mr. Nong Jinsun.
I don't need these anymore.
Neither do...
my parents.
Father...
I...
finally realized...
why you held back the last blow.
You are the true Champion.
Mother.
you taught me how to be a good person.
I was too arrogant to understand.
Rest assured
I will not disappoint you again.
My dear Jade.
I was not a good father.
And because of me.
you suffered a horrible death.
I was never good enough for you.
Let's have tea.
Sir. I am sorry.
My boss does not want to see you.
but he wants you to have this.
Watch your way.
Leave a way. Excuse me...
Mrs. Chin. I am very sorry
for what I have done.
Please allow me to pay my respects.
Mother. Mother.
Get out and kneel down.
You'll gonna have a hard time
if you come again
You dare to come with no money?
Get away!
Don't come again
or you'll have a hard time.
Get away! Get away!
Master...
- Master. we are sorry!
- we are sorry!
Master. I learned kung fu
with you since I was a child.
I don't know another
way to making a living.
Now you are back. and...
Master. please forgive us!
Stand up...
Fresh pork. reasonable price!
Fresh pork...
Madam.
Come here. madam...
It's great for making soup.
it is really cheap today.
Two catty (or One Kilogram)
of pork please!
No business with you!
Extra release!
Hercules O'Brien...
32 plays without losing one
25 fighters seriuosly injured.
challenges all Chinese fighters.
Vows to defeat every...
"Sick Man of Asia."
No one dare to callenge him.
Jinsun.
I'm so sorry for what I've done.
I realized my mistakes...
only too late!
It hurts to think about it.
Let's forget about the past.
That chapter is over.
Jinsun...
I don't know how to begin.
but you're the only one I can turn to.
I need to borrow some money.
What? You still want to fight?
Yes.
You cannot go down that path again.
I will not give you any money.
Young Master.
Master Huo.
my master wants you to have this.
Who's your master?
His name is Nong. Nong Jinsun.
The Shanghai Race Club 1909
Ladies and Gentlemen...
Brace yourself... for a man who
can move a train with one hand...
and punch through the Great Wall.
He can kill a Chinese fighter...
with his little finger.
Now. Welcome the 9th Wonder of the world...
the strongest man in history...
O'Brien!
Today's challenger is...
Huo Yuanjia of Tianjin!
Good!
Sign the Death Waiver.
Please inform him.
that taking a life in a competition...
is a cruel and backward tradition.
May I suggest that we compete
with honor and civility.
He wants to kick your butt.
Come On
Let the match begin!
Good!
Good! Good!
It'an honor.
Thank you.
Good!
Chinese Martial Artist Defeats
US Champion O'Brien
Chinese Fighter Defeats Western Boxer.
Victory Shocks Shanghai!
Huo Yuanjia Says Wushu Schools Must Unite
Fighter Founds Jingwu Sports Federation.
Recruits Country's Best
Shanghai Foreign Correspondents Club
Thank you.
Master!
You've received a dinner invitation.
I never dreamed it would be you.
I've been waiting for this day. Yuanjia.
Am I still your friend?
Your friendship... is very important to me.
How can I not?
I always knew that you
would not disappoint me.
But I did. for a long time.
Let's not talk about the past.
Come. have a seat.
Here. your favorite wine.
Come on.
What's the matter?
I stopped drinking. A long time ago.
Why?
But you loved to drink.
I've learned from my mistakes.
That's wonderful.
Let's have tea instead.
Yuanjia.
Your victory gained respect
for all Chinese people.
The foreigners have bullied us
for too long.
Someone should stand up.
If that hadn't happened.
they would have continued to see us
as the sick man of East Asia!
My friend...
I'm really proud of you.
Enjoy!
Chinese must get strengthened.
The Westerners despised us partially
because we've been busy
fighting among ourselves.
That becomes a laughing stock for others.
Foreigners see us as
the sick man of East Asia!
What they call us is irrelevant.
What matters is
if we are really sick.
or. if we are not attempting to cure
the disease even
when we know it is there.
They still flaunt their superiority.
I didn't expect you to be so insightful.
Compared to you. I am kind of bookish.
Jinsun.
when do you return to Tianjin?
I'm going to stay in Shanghai.
Who about your restaurant?
I sold it.
What?
But it was so profitable.
The Jingwu Sports Federation needs...
start-up funds.
But the restaurant has been your life!
My restaurant means little...
compared to...
your vision.
Yuanjia.
I do not know Wushu.
but I do know how to help.
I hope it will be enough.
Jinsun!
I was gone for quite a few years.
Everyday I asked myself
why I learned kung fu.
and whether or not
it was only for fighting.
Have you had an answer?
Only the weak
need to prove their power through force.
but what force leads to
is endless hatred.
I want to change kung fu
into a sport.
with which one can shape oneself
both physically and spiritually.
That's a good idea.
You should let more know about it.
I don't know how much I can achieve.
but I will try my best.
Did you hear that?
Yes.
I heard a voice calling.
Now what we hear
is the same voice!
Jingwu Sports Federation
Yuanjia!
Zhaojian
I was wrong to disrespect you.
Master Huo. I hope that...
I am so glad that you are here.
I was going to pick you up.
Laifu.
Master
would you please show Mr. Zhao around?
Yuanjia!
As we've discussed. the Jingwu Manifesto.
Take a look.
Our motto:
"Body. Mind and Soul".
Wushu is a way to cultivate one's body.
mind and soul.
All Wushu disciplines
are respected equally.
By working together...
We can better ourselves...
and stand strong as one nation
We influence others through...
cooperation. not intimidation.
Through this ideal. we will always...
Stand Strong!
Jingwu Sports Federation 1910
Shanghai Foreign Chamber of Commerce
Well. gentlemen. it's too rich for me.
I only bet on sure things.
Then perhaps you'll be interested...
in joining our little wager against this...
Huo Yuanjia fellow?
He'd better lose this time.
It cost me 6.000 francs
when he beat this O' Brien.
Mr. Mita here...
will ensure that you win back
everything that you lost...
plus a little bit more.
I've suggested a competition
of four matches...
between our countries' best against him.
We beat him and leave
the Chinese with nothing to brag about.
Four against one?
What makes you so sure
he is going to accept that?
Pride? Honor?
The prestige of his school?
It's of no importance.
He has already accepted the challenge.
Then. gentlemen.
I'll take you up on your wager.
And to make it a little more interesting...
I'm going to back the Chinese.
Mita... you are certain Huo Yuanjia will lose?
With what I have in mind...
our victory is guaranteed.
Yuanjia
One of the contestants
Tanaka. the Japanese fighter...
wishes to meet you.
I heard he remains undefeated.
He is one of the best.
Good. one can always learn from the best.
I suspect that the
Foreign Chamber of Commerce...
might have a hidden agenda.
How can they set up...
a 'one against four' contest?
It is...
an attempt to humiliate us.
and undermine our position.
You're right.
One against four is unfair...
plus I have to win each match.
But not everything in life...
is fair.
For the sake of the Federation.
I have no other choice.
What if?
Jinsun.
I want to ask you to do something...
What is it?
After this fight.
you should head the Sports Federation.
Why?
I want to visit Moon and Grandma.
I made a promise.
Do you know anything...
about teas?
I don't really want to know...
because I don't like categories.
Tea is tea.
Each has its own characteristics
hence different grades.
What's the purpose of grading?
All teas are grown in nature...
with little discernable differences
So you really don't know teas.
Once you learn
you can tell the differences.
Maybe you're right.
The way I see it...
the tea does not...
judge itself.
People...
judge the tea.
As for me. I don't want to do that.
Why not?
When you are in a good mood.
the grade of the tea...
does not matter.
I've never seen it that way.
In your opinion.
is one style of Wushu superior...
to another?
I don't think so.
If no particular style is superior...
why have...
so many competitions?
I believe...
no single style is superior.
Only different skill levels.
It is through training that...
one discovers one's strength.
Perhaps. the most formidable...
enemy lies within onself.
Competitions can lead us
to a path of self-discovery?
You mean...
our most important battle...
is actually fought within?
Your words
are poignant.
Let's...
enjoy the tea.
- Please enjoy.
- Thank you.
Shanghai 1910
French Concession Pierre Theatre
The Fight Arena
Today's battle
is between four fighters
from the Foreign Chamber of Commerce
and Huo Yuanjia
of the Jingwu Sports Federation.
Whichever side falls first
or signals to admit defeat
will be considered to have lost the match.
This is unusual.
Four against one?
You never told me.
Both the Chamber of Commerce...
and the Federation agreed.
Don't be concerned.
This is not a competition.
This is murder.
Tanaka. you're overreacting.
Huo Yuanjia fought the best fighters...
from around the world.
and won each time.
The rules... he set them up.
Mita.
What's your deal?
Is this really for the pride of Japan?
Or did you place a large bet?
The spirit Of Wushu...
is the most important thing.
To compete is to win.
Now the first round!
Huo Yuanjia against the British boxer!
British Boxer. Peter Smith
Start!
Belgium Royal Riding Coach. Hanks Herzog
Great job. master!
Fencing champion of Europe. Antony Kasia
This is our embarrassment.
We can't let him win.
The fourth and
final contest will now begin.
The competitor to represent
the Foreign Chamber of Commerce...
is Tanaka from Japan.
Begin!
Yuanjia.
This is an unfair contest.
If you wish to re-schedule...
that's fine with me.
You're very kind.
We started the fight...
we must finish.
Please!
Begin!
Master. that's great!
This round is a draw.
Please set down your weapons. gentlemen...
and prepare for hand-to-hand combat.
Mita. where have you been?
We're going to lose.
Don't worry. gentlemen.
I have it under control.
Yuanjia!
Time out!
- What's going on?
- What is he doing?
Yuanjia!
- Tanaka!
- Go now! Go!
What happened? What happened?
What happened?
Poisoned!
Poison? What poison?
How did this happen?
- What do you need?
- Tea...
Tea!
Where's the teapot?
The tea is laced. But it's gone!
We're going straight to the hospital.
Too late. The toxin is...
in my blood!
Let me take revenge.
Sheng.
We...
must not.
Revenge only...
brings more bloodshed.
No more revenge.
We must strive to better ourselves.
Forget the competition.
We're going to hospital.
Jinsun.
it took me years to understand...
the true meaning of Wushu.
and its purpose.
The competition must continue.
One cannot choose...
how one's life begins.
But one can choose...
to face the end with courage.
Master.
What are you doing?
Finish him off in the next round!
Why do you say that?
It's not for you to decide.
I must win this fight!
Whatever it takes. Just win!
We... Stand strong!
Stand strong! Stand strong!
You really want to win?
Let's stop.
Treasure your life.
Listen to them...
it's not just about me.
If you wish to continue.
I won't hold back.
It is my honor.
Young Master...
He's down! He's down!
Huo Yuanjia's down!
Go! Go! Go!
Make the announcement!
Wait!
Huo...
Yuan... Jia!
Yuanjia!
Huo Yuanjia! Huo Yuanjia!
Tanaka. you son-of-a bitch.
What is this?
I lost!
Who said you lost?
I know it in my heart.
I lost. Fair and square.
Who do you think you are?
You have no right to decide.
You can't be Japanese.
You are a disgrace to Japan!
Huo Yuanjia! Huo Yuanjia!
Huo Yuanjia died from poisoning
at the age of 42.
"The spirit of Wushu" as espoused
by Huo Yuanjia continues to
spread and thrive long
after he passed away...
today. the Jingwu Sports
Federation flourishes around the world.
with branches in over 50 countries.
To commemorate Huo Yuenjia's spirit.
Inscribed by Sun Zhongshan.
Father of the nation
To uphold the spirit of Wushu by Sunwen
Excuse me! Miss. Yang?
What are your chances?
I did my best. That's what's important.
Is it enough?
Do you want subtitles for any video?
-=[ ai.OpenSubtitles.com ]=-